[v2.15.0] Rename Azure AD to Entra ID (#1234)
rancher/rancher-product-docs: versions/v2.15/modules/en/pages/rancher-admin/users/authn-and-authz/configure-azure-ad.adoc

[TIP]
====
Before you start, open two browser tabs: one for Rancher, and one for the Azure portal. This will make it easier to copy and paste configuration values between the two interfaces.
====

[#_1_register_rancher_with_azure]
==== 1. Register Rancher with Azure

Before enabling Microsoft Entra ID within Rancher, you must register Rancher as an application in your tenant.

. Log in to the https://portal.azure.com/[Microsoft Azure Portal] as an administrative user (Global Administrator or Application Administrator).
. Search for and select *Microsoft Entra ID* (formerly _Azure Active Directory_).
. In the left navigation menu, select *App registrations*.
. Click *+ New registration* and complete the form.
+
image::new-app-registration.png[New App Registration]

 .. Enter a *Name* (such as `Rancher`).
 .. Under *Supported account types*, select *Accounts in this organizational directory only (Single tenant)*.
 .. In the *Redirect URI* section, ensure *Web* is selected in the platform dropdown menu. Enter your Rancher Server URL appended with the verification path: `<MY_RANCHER_URL>/verify-auth-azure`.   
+
[TIP]
====

> You can find your exact Redirect URI in Rancher by navigating to the **Azure AD** authentication setup page (*Global View > Users & Authentication > Auth Provider > AzureAD*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find your exact Redirect URI in Rancher by navigating to the **Azure AD** authentication setup page (*Global View > Users & Authentication > Auth Provider > Microsoft Entra ID*).
```

 .. Go to **Microsoft Entra ID > Overview** (or *App registrations* > your application's *Overview*).
 .. Copy the **Directory (tenant) ID**.
. Obtain your **Application (Client) ID**:
 .. On your app registration's **Overview** page, copy the **Application (client) ID**.
. Standard and China cloud environments only require entering the **Tenant ID**, **Application (Client) ID**, and **Client Secret Value**.

image::tenant-application-id-secret.png[Standard Endpoint Options]

*For Custom Endpoints:*

[CAUTION]
====
Custom Endpoints are not tested or officially supported by Rancher.
====

To locate custom endpoint URLs:

* From your app registration's *Overview* page, click **Endpoints** in the top toolbar.
* Select the v1 or v2 endpoints matching your deployment needs:
 ** **Microsoft Graph API endpoint** (Graph Endpoint)
 ** **OAuth 2.0 token endpoint** (Token Endpoint)
 ** **OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint** (Auth Endpoint)

[#_6_configure_azure_ad_in_rancher]
==== 6. Configure Microsoft Entra ID in Rancher

Complete the setup in the Rancher UI:

. Log into Rancher.
. In the top left menu, select **☰ > Users & Authentication**.
. In the left menu, click **Auth Provider**.

> . Click **AzureAD**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click **Microsoft Entra ID**.
```

| `\https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenantID}/oauth2/v2.0/token`
|===

==== Endpoint Reference (China)

|===
| Field | Legacy Endpoint (Deprecated) | New Endpoint (Microsoft Graph)

| Auth Endpoint
| `\https://login.chinacloudapi.cn/{tenantID}/oauth2/authorize`
| `\https://login.partner.microsoftonline.cn/{tenantID}/oauth2/v2.0/authorize`

| Endpoint
| `\https://login.chinacloudapi.cn/`
| `\https://login.partner.microsoftonline.cn/`

| Graph Endpoint
| `\https://graph.chinacloudapi.cn/`
| `\https://microsoftgraph.chinacloudapi.cn`

| Token Endpoint
| `\https://login.chinacloudapi.cn/{tenantID}/oauth2/token`
| `\https://login.partner.microsoftonline.cn/{tenantID}/oauth2/v2.0/token`
|===

[#_filtering_users_by_azure_ad_auth_group_memberships]
== Filtering Users by Microsoft Entra ID Group Memberships

In Rancher v2.9.0 and later, you can filter group memberships retrieved from Microsoft Entra ID using OData filter expressions.

[CAUTION]
====
Filtering out a group membership prevents Rancher from seeing that the user belongs to that group. As a result, users will lose any roles or access rights granted via excluded groups.
====

> . In Rancher, navigate to **☰ > Users & Authentication > Auth Provider > AzureAD**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Rancher, navigate to **☰ > Users & Authentication > Auth Provider > Microsoft Entra ID**.
```
